docs/DESIGN.md, before:

# Offline Capture App - Technical Design

## Tech Stack
- **Language**: Go 1.21+ (static binary, strong concurrency, good macOS integration).
- **Build tooling**: `make`, Go modules, minimal third-party deps.
- **Capture APIs**:
  - Video: AVFoundation via vendored `github.com/blacktop/go-macscreenrec`; package lives in the repo for offline builds.
  - Events: Quartz Event Taps (CGEventTap) for keyboard/mouse/window focus plus Accessibility Notifications for app/window metadata.
  - Screenshots: CGWindowListCreateImage combined with event triggers.
  - ASR (optional): Local Whisper.cpp bindings (invoked via CLI if binary present).
  - OCR: Tesseract via command-line if installed; fallback is disabled.
- **Core Go libraries** (vendored via `go mod vendor` to guarantee offline builds):
  - CLI: Custom dispatcher built on the standard `flag` package until third-party deps can be vendored.
  - Logging: Go 1.21 `log/slog` configured for JSON or console output via CLI flags.
  - Config parsing: lightweight internal YAML subset loader for offline builds.
  - Tokenizer: embedded BPE vocabulary packaged under `/pkg/tokenizer` with no external runtime fetches.

## Dependency Strategy
- Pin Go toolchain to 1.21.x and commit `go.mod`/`go.sum` alongside a fully populated `vendor/` directory for deterministic, offline builds.
- Wrap native capture bindings (`go-macscreenrec`) directly in the repository to avoid transitive downloads and ease notarization.
- Provide `make bootstrap` to verify Xcode CLT presence, run `go mod vendor`, and validate that required binaries (Whisper.cpp, Tesseract) are either available or clearly reported as optional.
- Document every required binary and environment prerequisite in `README` and `docs/` so Phase 1 implementation can reference a single source of truth.
- Manifest generation records which subsystems (video, screenshots, OCR, ASR) were active so downstream tooling understands capability gaps.

## Repository Layout & Tooling Baseline
- Go module initialized at `github.com/offlinefirst/limitless-context` with entrypoint in `cmd/tester`.
- `internal/cmd` hosts a lightweight dispatcher that exposes roadmap-aligned subcommands (`bootstrap`, `run`, `bundle`, `process`, `report`, `clean`, `doctor`, `version`). The dispatcher now supports global flags (`--config`, `--log-level`, `--log-format`) plus per-command flag parsing while capture implementations are pending. We can upgrade to Cobra once vendored dependencies are available offline.
- `internal/buildinfo` centralizes version information and enables `make` targets to stamp builds.
- `pkg/config`, `pkg/logging`, `pkg/runmanifest`, and `pkg/tokenizer` directories are stubbed to anchor future implementations without breaking offline builds.
- `Makefile` provides `bootstrap`, `tidy`, `vendor`, `build`, `lint`, `test`, and `run-cli` targets so tooling automation has a consistent entry point from the outset.

## High-Level Architecture
```
/cmd/tester            # Entry CLI
/internal/
  capture/             # Subsystems for video, events, screenshots, asr
  redact/              # Masking pipelines for events/text/image OCR
  cluster/             # Sessionization, task clustering, metadata tagging
  bundle/              # Context assembly, token accounting, exporter
  import/              # JSON validation, checksum verification
  report/              # HTML generation, metrics aggregation
/pkg/
  config               # YAML parsing, defaults, validation
  logging              # Structured logging (slog-based helpers)
  tokenizer            # Embedded BPE tokenizer w/ offline vocab
  utils                # Shared helpers (filesystem, time, errors)
```

## Runtime Flow
1. `tester run` loads config, initializes capture subsystems concurrently.
2. Coordinator manages run state (Running, Paused, Stopping) with context cancellation and channels.
3. Each subsystem writes to `runs/{stamp}/...` while reporting status events to shared event bus.
4. Redaction module filters event payloads and OCR/ASR text before persistence.
5. On stop or duration expiry, coordinator flushes buffers, finalizes indexes, and writes run manifest.
6. `tester bundle` loads manifest, events, OCR, ASR to build task clusters and bundles, writing metrics.
7. `tester process` ingests manual outputs, validates, and produces report assets.
8. `tester report` opens the `report.html` using `open` command (local).

## Capture Subsystems

### Phase 1 Stub Implementations

- **Event tap**: current Go implementation synthesises keyboard, mouse, window-focus, and clipboard events at configurable fine/coarse intervals. A redaction pipeline masks emails and custom regex patterns before persisting JSONL streams and bucket summaries under `events/`. These fixtures unblock downstream processing and privacy validation while native integrations are scoped.
- **Screenshot scheduler**: deterministic scheduler throttles captures according to interval/limit configuration. Placeholder text artifacts stand in for PNGs and are timestamped for future OCR alignment.
- **Video recorder**: lightweight recorder stub emits a single segment file per run with capture start/end metadata. It enables bundle/report flows to reason about video layout without requiring AVFoundation bindings yet.

The long-term design still targets macOS native APIs (AVFoundation, CGEventTap, CGWindowListCreateImage). The stubs mirror their data contracts so that replacing them with production integrations only affects subsystem internals.

## Optional Dependency Strategy
- Whisper.cpp and Tesseract are treated as optional binaries.
- Detection occurs at runtime via `exec.LookPath`; when missing, the subsystem logs guidance and marks the capability inactive.
- Demo runs and automated tests simulate transcripts/OCR with fixtures when binaries are absent.
- Bundle metadata records which optional subsystems were active for traceability.
- `make doctor` (to be implemented) will surface consolidated dependency status, including hashes for vendored assets to simplify auditing.

- **VideoRecorder**: wraps AVFoundation session to record screen 1080p at configured fps, chunked writes to allow incremental flush. Emits heartbeat events for runtime metrics.
- **EventTap**: attaches to CGEventTap and Accessibility APIs, normalizes events to schema, deduplicates repeated states, tags granularity (2s/5s) per scheduled ticker.
- **Screenshotter**: listens to event bus triggers (app switch, url change, etc.), enforces throttle window, captures PNG, stores metadata JSON.
- **ASRAgent**: monitors focused window titles for meeting heuristics, records mic/system audio to temp WAV, invokes Whisper binary when auto-detected, otherwise logs guidance and skips transcription.
- **OCRWorker**: optional; queued for selected screenshots; runs Tesseract CLI when discovered locally, otherwise leaves placeholders and guidance.

## Redaction Pipeline
1. Pre-validate allow-list: discard events from non-whitelisted apps/URLs.
2. Apply regex-based masking for emails, 16-digit numbers, JWT-like patterns.
3. Strip password fields and sensitive window titles.
4. Log summary metrics and failures without storing raw sensitive values.

## Clustering & Bundling
- Sessionization: sort events, segment on idle gap >120s.
- Task clustering heuristics:
  - Group by dominant app/url/file combination within session slice.
  - Promote clusters containing build start/end, modal opens, form submits.
  - Merge adjacent clusters if duration <45s to avoid fragmentation.
- Context assembly:
  - `events` section as bullet JSON lines with event_id references.
  - `optional_ocr` and `optional_asr` sections with timestamped entries.
  - Token accounting via local BPE over prompt template + context to ensure budgets.
- Metrics: store counts, durations, checksums (SHA256) per bundle.

## Import Validation
- Use JSON schema definitions (Go structs + validation) for fast checks.
- Evidence resolver ensures `event:evt_x` or `shot:mm:ss` references exist in run metadata.
- Size/character scan rejects oversized or malformed outputs.
- Failed tasks recorded in `import/report.json` for later use in HTML.

## Report Generation
- Report builder uses Go templates + embedded CSS/JS for timeline interactions offline.
- Aggregates metrics per mode and calculates weighted scores.
- Includes privacy summary by reading redaction logs.
- Links to artifacts via relative paths within run directory.

## Command Interface
- Primary CLI uses Cobra or stdlib flag parsing to expose subcommands aligning with make targets.
- Signal handling (SIGINT/SIGTERM) triggers graceful stop.
- `tester status` (optional) prints live state from run manifest.

## Data Layout Example
```
runs/20240512_0930/
  manifest.json
  capture.log
  video/
    mode_video/recording.mp4
  events/
    mode_hybrid/events_2s.jsonl
    mode_hybrid/events_5s.jsonl
    mode_events_only/events_2s.jsonl
    mode_events_only/events_5s.jsonl
  screenshots/
    hybrid/0001.png
    hybrid/0001.json
  asr/
    hybrid/meeting123.vtt
  ocr/
    0001.txt
  bundles/
    README_bundles.md
    task_001/
      prompt.txt
      context.md
      metrics.json
      output.json (manual)
    day_summary/
      prompt.txt
      context_index.json
      output.json
  report/
    report.html
    report.json
```

### Run Manifest Schema

- **Schema versioning**: `schema_version` anchors compatibility when iterating on downstream tooling. Version `1` records core metadata.
- **Identity & provenance**: `run_id` follows `YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS` timestamps with collision suffixes, `created_at` is stored in UTC, and `hostname` plus CLI `app_version` document the environment.
- **Capture toggles**: `capture` embeds the effective configuration flags for video, screenshots, and event taps to indicate which subsystems produced artifacts.
- **Portable paths**: Relative directory names (`video`, `events`, `screenshots`, `asr`, `ocr`, `bundles`, `report`, `capture.log`) are written under a `paths` block so moving the run folder preserves manifest correctness without rewrites.
- **Lifecycle status**: Runs initialise with `status.state = "pending"`; later phases will update this to `running`, `completed`, or `failed` as coordinators mature.

## Error Handling Strategy
- Subsystems operate with supervisor pattern; failure logs include error codes.
- Non-critical failures (e.g., OCR missing) degrade gracefully and noted in manifest.
- Critical failures (video capture crash) stop only that subsystem, continue others, flag in report.

## Logging & Telemetry
- Use structured JSON logs to maintain audit trail.
- Provide CLI flag `--log-level` for verbosity.
- Summaries written to manifest for quick status.

## Security & Privacy Considerations
- All binaries and dependencies vendored; no runtime downloads.
- Configurable allow/block lists and mask patterns; default-deny approach.
- Teardown command ensures secure deletion (optional secure wipe).

## Testing Strategy
- Unit tests for clustering, redaction, tokenizer counts, validation logic.
- Integration tests using recorded fixture data (demo_3min) for bundle/process/report pipelines.
- CLI smoke tests via `make demo` target to ensure command flow.

## Open Questions
- Validate and iterate on meeting detection heuristics (initial list: window titles containing "Zoom", "Meet", "Teams", "Webex").

Commit message:

feat: capture real screenshots with metadata

docs/DESIGN.md, after:

# Offline Capture App - Technical Design

## Tech Stack
- **Language**: Go 1.21+ (static binary, strong concurrency, good macOS integration).
- **Build tooling**: `make`, Go modules, minimal third-party deps.
- **Capture APIs**:
  - Video: AVFoundation via vendored `github.com/blacktop/go-macscreenrec`; package lives in the repo for offline builds.
  - Events: Quartz Event Taps (CGEventTap) for keyboard/mouse/window focus plus Accessibility Notifications for app/window metadata.
  - Screenshots: CGWindowListCreateImage combined with event triggers.
  - ASR (optional): Local Whisper.cpp bindings (invoked via CLI if binary present).
  - OCR: Tesseract via command-line if installed; fallback is disabled.
- **Core Go libraries** (vendored via `go mod vendor` to guarantee offline builds):
  - CLI: Custom dispatcher built on the standard `flag` package until third-party deps can be vendored.
  - Logging: Go 1.21 `log/slog` configured for JSON or console output via CLI flags.
  - Config parsing: lightweight internal YAML subset loader for offline builds.
  - Tokenizer: embedded BPE vocabulary packaged under `/pkg/tokenizer` with no external runtime fetches.

## Dependency Strategy
- Pin Go toolchain to 1.21.x and commit `go.mod`/`go.sum` alongside a fully populated `vendor/` directory for deterministic, offline builds.
- Wrap native capture bindings (`go-macscreenrec`) directly in the repository to avoid transitive downloads and ease notarization.
- Provide `make bootstrap` to verify Xcode CLT presence, run `go mod vendor`, and validate that required binaries (Whisper.cpp, Tesseract) are either available or clearly reported as optional.
- Document every required binary and environment prerequisite in `README` and `docs/` so Phase 1 implementation can reference a single source of truth.
- Manifest generation records which subsystems (video, screenshots, OCR, ASR) were active so downstream tooling understands capability gaps.

## Repository Layout & Tooling Baseline
- Go module initialized at `github.com/offlinefirst/limitless-context` with entrypoint in `cmd/tester`.
- `internal/cmd` hosts a lightweight dispatcher that exposes roadmap-aligned subcommands (`bootstrap`, `run`, `bundle`, `process`, `report`, `clean`, `doctor`, `version`). The dispatcher now supports global flags (`--config`, `--log-level`, `--log-format`) plus per-command flag parsing while capture implementations are pending. We can upgrade to Cobra once vendored dependencies are available offline.
- `internal/buildinfo` centralizes version information and enables `make` targets to stamp builds.
- `pkg/config`, `pkg/logging`, `pkg/runmanifest`, and `pkg/tokenizer` directories are stubbed to anchor future implementations without breaking offline builds.
- `Makefile` provides `bootstrap`, `tidy`, `vendor`, `build`, `lint`, `test`, and `run-cli` targets so tooling automation has a consistent entry point from the outset.

## High-Level Architecture
```
/cmd/tester            # Entry CLI
/internal/
  capture/             # Subsystems for video, events, screenshots, asr
  redact/              # Masking pipelines for events/text/image OCR
  cluster/             # Sessionization, task clustering, metadata tagging
  bundle/              # Context assembly, token accounting, exporter
  import/              # JSON validation, checksum verification
  report/              # HTML generation, metrics aggregation
/pkg/
  config               # YAML parsing, defaults, validation
  logging              # Structured logging (slog-based helpers)
  tokenizer            # Embedded BPE tokenizer w/ offline vocab
  utils                # Shared helpers (filesystem, time, errors)
```

## Runtime Flow
1. `tester run` loads config, initializes capture subsystems concurrently.
2. Coordinator manages run state (Running, Paused, Stopping) with context cancellation and channels.
3. Each subsystem writes to `runs/{stamp}/...` while reporting status events to shared event bus.
4. Redaction module filters event payloads and OCR/ASR text before persistence.
5. On stop or duration expiry, coordinator flushes buffers, finalizes indexes, and writes run manifest.
6. `tester bundle` loads manifest, events, OCR, ASR to build task clusters and bundles, writing metrics.
7. `tester process` ingests manual outputs, validates, and produces report assets.
8. `tester report` opens the `report.html` using `open` command (local).

## Capture Subsystems

### Phase 1 Stub Implementations

- **Event tap**: current Go implementation synthesises keyboard, mouse, window-focus, and clipboard events at configurable fine/coarse intervals. A redaction pipeline masks emails and custom regex patterns before persisting JSONL streams and bucket summaries under `events/`. These fixtures unblock downstream processing and privacy validation while native integrations are scoped.
- **Screenshot scheduler**: deterministic scheduler throttles captures according to interval/limit configuration. On macOS it prefers ScreenCaptureKit for live frames, falling back to `CGWindowListCreateImage` when unavailable, and writes PNG + JSON metadata pairs ready for OCR alignment.
- **Video recorder**: lightweight recorder stub emits a single segment file per run with capture start/end metadata. It enables bundle/report flows to reason about video layout without requiring AVFoundation bindings yet.

The long-term design still targets macOS native APIs (AVFoundation, CGEventTap, CGWindowListCreateImage). The stubs mirror their data contracts so that replacing them with production integrations only affects subsystem internals.

## Optional Dependency Strategy
- Whisper.cpp and Tesseract are treated as optional binaries.
- Detection occurs at runtime via `exec.LookPath`; when missing, the subsystem logs guidance and marks the capability inactive.
- Demo runs and automated tests simulate transcripts/OCR with fixtures when binaries are absent.
- Bundle metadata records which optional subsystems were active for traceability.
- `make doctor` (to be implemented) will surface consolidated dependency status, including hashes for vendored assets to simplify auditing.

- **VideoRecorder**: wraps AVFoundation session to record screen 1080p at configured fps, chunked writes to allow incremental flush. Emits heartbeat events for runtime metrics.
- **EventTap**: attaches to CGEventTap and Accessibility APIs, normalizes events to schema, deduplicates repeated states, tags granularity (2s/5s) per scheduled ticker.
- **Screenshotter**: listens to event bus triggers (app switch, url change, etc.), enforces throttle window, captures PNG, stores metadata JSON.
- **ASRAgent**: monitors focused window titles for meeting heuristics, records mic/system audio to temp WAV, invokes Whisper binary when auto-detected, otherwise logs guidance and skips transcription.
- **OCRWorker**: optional; queued for selected screenshots; runs Tesseract CLI when discovered locally, otherwise leaves placeholders and guidance.

## Redaction Pipeline
1. Pre-validate allow-list: discard events from non-whitelisted apps/URLs.
2. Apply regex-based masking for emails, 16-digit numbers, JWT-like patterns.
3. Strip password fields and sensitive window titles.
4. Log summary metrics and failures without storing raw sensitive values.

## Clustering & Bundling
- Sessionization: sort events, segment on idle gap >120s.
- Task clustering heuristics:
  - Group by dominant app/url/file combination within session slice.
  - Promote clusters containing build start/end, modal opens, form submits.
  - Merge adjacent clusters if duration <45s to avoid fragmentation.
- Context assembly:
  - `events` section as bullet JSON lines with event_id references.
  - `optional_ocr` and `optional_asr` sections with timestamped entries.
  - Token accounting via local BPE over prompt template + context to ensure budgets.
- Metrics: store counts, durations, checksums (SHA256) per bundle.

## Import Validation
- Use JSON schema definitions (Go structs + validation) for fast checks.
- Evidence resolver ensures `event:evt_x` or `shot:mm:ss` references exist in run metadata.
- Size/character scan rejects oversized or malformed outputs.
- Failed tasks recorded in `import/report.json` for later use in HTML.

## Report Generation
- Report builder uses Go templates + embedded CSS/JS for timeline interactions offline.
- Aggregates metrics per mode and calculates weighted scores.
- Includes privacy summary by reading redaction logs.
- Links to artifacts via relative paths within run directory.

## Command Interface
- Primary CLI uses Cobra or stdlib flag parsing to expose subcommands aligning with make targets.
- Signal handling (SIGINT/SIGTERM) triggers graceful stop.
- `tester status` (optional) prints live state from run manifest.

## Data Layout Example
```
runs/20240512_0930/
  manifest.json
  capture.log
  video/
    mode_video/recording.mp4
  events/
    mode_hybrid/events_2s.jsonl
    mode_hybrid/events_5s.jsonl
    mode_events_only/events_2s.jsonl
    mode_events_only/events_5s.jsonl
  screenshots/
    hybrid/0001.png
    hybrid/0001.json
  asr/
    hybrid/meeting123.vtt
  ocr/
    0001.txt
  bundles/
    README_bundles.md
    task_001/
      prompt.txt
      context.md
      metrics.json
      output.json (manual)
    day_summary/
      prompt.txt
      context_index.json
      output.json
  report/
    report.html
    report.json
```

### Run Manifest Schema

- **Schema versioning**: `schema_version` anchors compatibility when iterating on downstream tooling. Version `1` records core metadata.
- **Identity & provenance**: `run_id` follows `YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS` timestamps with collision suffixes, `created_at` is stored in UTC, and `hostname` plus CLI `app_version` document the environment.
- **Capture toggles**: `capture` embeds the effective configuration flags for video, screenshots, and event taps to indicate which subsystems produced artifacts.
- **Portable paths**: Relative directory names (`video`, `events`, `screenshots`, `asr`, `ocr`, `bundles`, `report`, `capture.log`) are written under a `paths` block so moving the run folder preserves manifest correctness without rewrites.
- **Lifecycle status**: Runs initialise with `status.state = "pending"`; later phases will update this to `running`, `completed`, or `failed` as coordinators mature.

## Error Handling Strategy
- Subsystems operate with supervisor pattern; failure logs include error codes.
- Non-critical failures (e.g., OCR missing) degrade gracefully and noted in manifest.
- Critical failures (video capture crash) stop only that subsystem, continue others, flag in report.

## Logging & Telemetry
- Use structured JSON logs to maintain audit trail.
- Provide CLI flag `--log-level` for verbosity.
- Summaries written to manifest for quick status.

## Security & Privacy Considerations
- All binaries and dependencies vendored; no runtime downloads.
- Configurable allow/block lists and mask patterns; default-deny approach.
- Teardown command ensures secure deletion (optional secure wipe).

## Testing Strategy
- Unit tests for clustering, redaction, tokenizer counts, validation logic.
- Integration tests using recorded fixture data (demo_3min) for bundle/process/report pipelines.
- CLI smoke tests via `make demo` target to ensure command flow.

## Open Questions
- Validate and iterate on meeting detection heuristics (initial list: window titles containing "Zoom", "Meet", "Teams", "Webex").
